# Love Chain Information

Contents

* [Status](#status)
* [Chain Data](#chain-data)

## Status

* Timeline
  * 2022-11-30: Spawn Time : `2022-11-30T00:00:00.000000000Z`
  * 2022-11-27: Proposal 16 voting period ends
  * 2022-11-25: Proposal 16 goes into voting period
  * 2022-11-25: Genesis file without CCV state is generated

Love will launch as a consumer chain through a governance proposal in the `provider` chain. Read the [Consumer Chain Start Process](/docs/Consumer-Chain-Start-Process.md) page for more details about the workflow.

The following items will be included in the proposal:
* Genesis file hash
  * The SHA256 is used to verify against the genesis file that the proposer has made available for review.
  * This "fresh" genesis file cannot be used to run the chain: it must be updated with the CCV states after the spawn time is reached.
* Binary hash
* Spawn time
  * Even if the proposal passes, the CCV states will not be available from the provider chain until after the spawn time is reached.

## Chain Data

### Binary

The binary published in this repo is the `loved` binary built using the `dsrvlabs/love` repo tag [v0.0.1](https://github.com/dsrvlabs/love/releases/tag/v0.0.1). You can generate the binary following the [Get Started section](https://github.com/dsrvlabs/love/tree/v0.0.1#get-started).

  * [Linux amd64 build](loved)
  * Version: `main-397067303b1a543fed873071b34c984c8dce7920`
  * SHA256: `1aadeb9d9d8495159e9d51e75e2948f6b59f992a68d0da3221a59db7a415b5b8`

### Genesis file

**The genesis file for Interchain Security consumer chains must include the CCV (Cross Chain Validation) state generated by the provider chain _after_ the spawn time is reached.**

Final genesis file **with CCV state**: `**pending spawn time**`
- SHA256: `pending spawn time`
- Validators must replace their `config/genesis.json` file with this one before running the binary.

The genesis file with was generated using the following settings:

* Chain ID: `love-1`
* Denom: `ulove`
* Signed blocks window: `"8640"`
* Genesis accounts were added to provide funds for a faucet and a relayer that will be run by the testnet coordinators.
* Genesis file **without CCV state**: [`love-fresh-genesis.json`](love-fresh-genesis.json), SHA256: `c4de8465e97767045df0528e7e14baec9162921364732a577b27cb283f5cd404`
  * **This is provided only for verification, this is not the genesis file validators should be running their nodes with.**

## Endpoints

* **p2p persistent peers : `b415bba3c0c1be3e7c0b1f6036475904c5372017@164.92.169.128:26656`**
* These peers represent the `DSRV` validator. please consider sharing your peers in discord, or create a PR to peers.txt
* Please keep in mind that any validator that does not come online after 67% of the voting power is up and running, is likely to be slashed for downtime, potentially resulting in being jailed (the `signed_blocks_window` parameter is set to `8640`).

## Join via Bash Script

On the node machine:
- Copy the `node_key.json` and `priv_validator_key.json` files for your validator.
  - **These should be the same ones as the ones from your provider node**.
- Run one of the following scripts:
  - Love service: [love-init.sh](love-init.sh)
  - Cosmovisor service: [love-init-cv.sh](love-init-cv.sh)
- Wait until the spawn time is reached and the genesis file with the CCV states is available.
- Overwrite the genesis file with the one that includes the CCV states.
  - The default location is `$HOME/.love/config/genesis.json`.
- Enable and start the service:
  - Love
    ```
    sudo systemctl enable love
    sudo systemctl start love
    ```
  - Cosmovisor
    ```
    sudo systemctl enable cv-love
    sudo systemctl start cv-love
    ```
- To follow the log, use:
  - Love: `journalctl -fu love`
  - Cosmovisor: `journalctl -fu cv-love`
- If the log does not show up right away, run `systemctl restart systemd-journald`.
