# Apollo Chain Information

Contents

* [Status](#status)
* [Chain Data](#chain-data)

## Status

* Timeline
  * 2022-11-10: Spawn time: `2022-11-10T15:00:00.000000Z`
  * 2022-11-09: Proposal 2 voting period ends
  * 2022-11-07: Proposal 2 goes into voting period
  * 2022-11-07: Chain initialized

Apollo will launch as a consumer chain through a governance proposal in the `provider` chain. Read the [Consumer Chain Start Process](/docs/Consumer-Chain-Start-Process.md) page for more details about the workflow.

The following items will be included in the proposal:
* Genesis file hash
  * The SHA256 is used to verify against the genesis file that the proposer has made available for review.
  * This "fresh" genesis file cannot be used to run the chain: it must be updated with the CCV states after the spawn time is reached.
* Binary hash
* Spawn time
  * Even if the proposal passes, the CCV states will not be available from the provider chain until after the spawn time is reached.

## Chain Data

### Binary

The binary published in this repo is the `interchain-security-cd` binary built using the `interchain-security` repo tag [v0.2.0](https://github.com/cosmos/interchain-security/releases/tag/v0.2.0). You can generate the binary following the [build instructions](https://github.com/cosmos/interchain-security#instructions).

  * [Linux amd64 build](interchain-security-cd)
  * SHA256: `071d7ee2765dc97206391aa64cd42e23e9847c179ab1c4e72eb1811b2c157047`

### Genesis file

**The genesis file for Interchain Security consumer chains must include the CCV (Cross Chain Validation) state generated by the provider chain _after_ the spawn time is reached.**

**The testnet coordinators will publish the final Apollo genesis file that includes the CCV state in this repo shortly after spawn time.**

Final genesis file with CCV state: **TBD (will be published after spawn time)**

The genesis file with was generated using the following settings:

* Chain ID: `apollo`
* Denom: `upol`
* Signed blocks window: `"8640"`
* Two additional genesis accounts were added to provide funds for a faucet and a relayer that will be run by the testnet coordinators.
* Genesis file without CCV state: [`apollo-fresh-genesis.json`](apollo-fresh-genesis.json), SHA256: `978853b8e0f57f352916d7c4c5e9226b0e74b2a9f1292a0adcea2aa681c58c40`
  * **This is provided only for verification, this is not the genesis file validators should be running their nodes with.**

## Endpoints

* **p2p persistent peers : `4b5cee15e6a9c4b96b8c1c4f396a18b0461edc17@104.248.161.33:26656,835173badfc41ecbd867a0395c6a452bda2bb90f@178.62.105.39:26656`**
* These peers represent the `goc-coordinator` and `goc-backup` validators (run by the testnet coordinators). 
* The `goc-backup` validator node will be running on Apollo shortly after the genesis file that includes the CCV state (Cross Chain Validation state) has been published.
* The `goc-coordinator` validator node has an overwhelming majority of the voting power, and we aim to start it two hours after the spawn time is reached. 67% of the voting power needs to come online for consumer chains to start. Once the `goc-coordinator` is live, the chain will progress.
* Please keep in mind that any validator that does not come online after 67% of the voting power is up and running, is likely to be slashed for downtime, potentially resulting in being jailed (the `signed_blocks_window` parameter is set to `8640`).

## Join via Bash Script

On the node machine:
- Copy the `node_key.json` and `priv_validator_key.json` files for your validator.
  - **These should be the same ones as the ones from your provider node**.
- Run one of the following scripts:
  - Apollo service: [apollo-init.sh](apollo-init.sh)
  - Cosmovisor service: [apollo-init-cv.sh](apollo-init-cv.sh)
- Wait until the spawn time is reached and the genesis file with the CCV states is available.
- Overwrite the genesis file with the one that includes the CCV states.
  - The default location is `$HOME/.apollo/config/genesis.json`.
- Enable and start the service:
  - Apollo
    ```
    sudo systemctl enable apollo
    sudo systemctl start apollo
    ```
  - Cosmovisor
    ```
    sudo systemctl enable cv-apollo
    sudo systemctl start cv-apollo
    ```